---
title: Legal
heading: Policy palace
toc:
- /legal/user-agreements
---

8fold makes its governance processes transparent by way of various policies and agreements outlined here. In some cases documents are included by reference; thereby, extending the overarching document as applicable.

Agreements are between 8fold and its various users related to treatment to mutual benefit. Policies are used to establish governance regarding what happens under various situations; for example, there may be a policy governing what happens when one of the agreements is no longer satisfied. Further, policies may be included with the agreements themselves, when appropriate.

## Data policy

You own your data, 8fold is a steward of it.

### Definitions

"Generating" or "generated" data is data created by 8fold applications, products, or services for internal use only, while usually not derived from collected information, they may be in accordance with other policies and agreements.

"Collecting" or "collected" data is data requested from visitors, not generated by 8fold. **All collected data must** be required to legal, provider compliance, and technical operations of 8fold applications, products, or services. For details, see [our user agreements](/legal/agreements).

"Storing" or "stored" data is generated or collected data stored in a persistent medium for later use.

### Overview

8fold avoids collecting data unless required for operation of or improvement to various products and services. 

When storing data is required 8fold will make a fair attempt at:

1. storing data in multiple location to mitigate aggreagation of data,
2. limiting direct access to sensitive data when practical (ex. we do not store full credit card numbers, nor do we have access to those numbers from our processors),
3. encrypting all data stored except when doing so would render a product or service unusable or impractical,
4. separating private and public operations to ensure sensitive information is processed within and betwee trusted, known devices and service providers.

This non-exhaustive list represents the foundation of our measures to increase system security. While 8fold cannot make an absolute guarantee of system security, 8fold does take reasonable steps to maintain security. If you suspect system security has been breached, [contact 8fold](https://8fold.link/ef/contact) for help.

For specific information on data collected, under what circumstances, and for what purposes, please see the appropriate [user agreements](/user-agreements).

|+ ### What 8fold does

#### Secure by default, and know who you're talking to

We use TLS and HTTPS by default, which is to say, even if you go to an 8fold website specifying HTTP, you will be redirected to the HTTPS version. The HTTPS version uses a certificate to verify with your computer that you are talking to one of our computers. If you go to what you believe is an 8fold and this does not happen, please leave the website and [contact 8fold](https://8fold.link/ef/contact) immediately.

Further, we may request information to verify the your identity when contacting 8fold.

#### Encryption and separation

"Encryption" can sometimes be a misnomer; therefore, it may be more appropriate to say we are obfuscating data in some manner.

8fold obfuscates most data at rest. 8fold, as often as practical, partners with service providers who obfuscate data at rest and data in transit. 

In some cases we may use [multiple encryption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_encryption) or one-way hashing, which is to say data that was obfuscated in some way may be obfuscated again or the data that is stored should not be reversable. For example, an obfuscated password may be stored in a way we cannot reverse; therefore, a submitted potential is given to us, passed through an algorithm and compared against the one stored, which means passwords cannot be recovered, only overwritten. 
+what-ef-does|

|+ ### What you can do

#### Keep it secret, keep it safe

Do not disclose information unless it's necessary to reach a goal. Even if it is required to reach your goal, understand *why* that specific piece of data is required.

For example, the first step in becoming a [Register User](/user-groups) is to provide an email address. 8fold Link is an invitation-only platform; therefore, 8fold requires somewhere to send the invitation (as well as confirmation that you &mdash; or someone with access to that email address &mdash; requested the invitation). We specifically require a registered and preferred means of digital communication.

Encrypt your data whenever possible. Most operating systems allow you to encrypt what is referred to as "data at rest" &mdash; your hard drive. It is possible to encrypt data traveling from your computer to another ("data in transit") so long as the receiver will be able to decrypt that data.

#### Passwords

Passwords should:

* be long, we chose a minimum of 8, you have up 255.
* contain special characters, including spaces &mdash; preferably _not_ the exclamation mark (!).
* contain a non-obvious phrase you’ll remember.
* be something you can remember, even if you never type it or use a password management tool; you may not have access to that tool.

See also, Lorrie Faith Cranor’s TED Talk entitled [What’s wrong with your pa$$w0rd?](https://www.ted.com/talks/lorrie_faith_cranor_what_s_wrong_with_your_pa_w0rd/up-next?language=en).
+what-you-can-do|

## Privacy policy

### Definitions

"Personal information" is defined by 8fold and other governing bodies as information that can be linked to an invidual person and includes, but is not limited to, email addresses, legal names, and phone numbers.

"Sensitive information" is often personal information but may not be and could be used by a malicious actor to cause harm or duress and includes, but is not limited to, credit card numbers, a physical address, and political party or religious affiliation. 

### Overview 

8fold will not collect or store personal or sensitive information unless required for the operation of a product or service.

8fold wll not knowingly make public your personal or sensitive information. This information may be made available to 8fold Practitioners or third-party service providers to facilitate products, services, and their support. 

When using third-party service providers, 8fold will make an effort in good faith to transmit any personal or sensitive information directly to the third-party and interact with them per their data and privacy policies and procedures.

Peronal and sensitive information entrusted to 8fold will not be sold under any circumstances. Further, 8fold will not knowingly enter into a partnership with a third-party who would. If you believe 8fold has unwittingly entered into such an agreement, [contact 8fold](https://8fold.link/ef/contact) immediately.

For specific information on data collected, under what circumstances, and for what purposes, please see the appropriate [user agreements](/user-agreements).

|+ ### Right to be forgotten

The [.GDPR](General Data Protection Regulation) is a law governing how businesses must steward data when doing business with someone in the [.EU](European Union). While 8fold believes most of the practices listed should be done because it's the right thing to do, having the aid of regulation is helpful.

Article 17 of the GDPR is entitled Right to Erasure ('right to be forgotten'). Under this article, and because it's just the civil thing to do, you have the ability to delete a persona and all content related to that persona whenever you like. Further, any comments or replies to content will be replaced by placeholders that do not reference a specific account and no longer display the content. Finally, you have the ability to delete your user account, which will automatically result in the deletion of all personas associated with that user account.

Sometimes, you are not able to delete your own account or to notify 8fold; therefore, the following protocol is designed to help ensure the security of your information.

1. **After 6 months of inactivity** 8fold will reach out to let you know we hope you are well and let you know implications should you remain inactive. This notice will be sent to the main email address on file, at minimum.
2. **After 12 months of inactivity** 8fold will reach again, only the notice will be sent to all communication channels you’ve provided. The notice will be to inform you that your account has been marked inactive and any subscriptions have been canceled.
3. **After 18 months of inactivity** 8fold will reach out again through all channels, will export the data on your behalf, will provide instructions on how to retrieve the exported data, and will delete your account.
4. **6 months after export** the data will be deleted from storage.

#### Modifying your personal information or deleting your account

If you have an 8fold account, you can access and modify your personal information, or delete your account.

To protect information from accidental or malicious destruction, we may not immediately delete residual copies from our active servers and may not remove information from our backup systems.

If you delete your account, your account and content may be unrecoverable.
+right-to-be-forgotten|

## Accessibility Policy

8fold caters to the most constrained, which means we actively pursue making our products and services available to the widest audience possible. This pursuit goes beyond physical limitation to include mental and technological.

With that said, just as no one can provide absolute guarantee as to the security of a system, we cannot make an absolute guarantee to the universal accessibility of products and services.

If you believe we missed something, please [contact 8fold](https://8fold.link/ef/contact) so we may review and respond to the concern.

|++
|+ ### Physical locations
There are times when 8fold Practitioners may reserve, operate, or occupy physical locations. When identifying such locations we strive to ensure they comply with the [.ADA](Americans with Disability Acts) as a foundation, striving to take other considerations into account.
+physical-locations|
|+ ### Software (including websites)
8fold Practitioners create a variety of products and services. When it comes to software, including websites, 8fold Practtioners use the [[.WCAG](Web Content Accessibility Guidelines)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/) as their foundation. All software products should meet one-hundred percent of Level [.AA](double A) and thirty percent of level [.AAA](triple A), both of which requires one-hundred perent compliance with Level A.

Beyond what we believe is a minimum provided by WCAG, we consider performance and other considerations despite technological limitations to be accessibility concerns. 

8fold also recommends using these guidelines beyond software to inform hardware and print designs.

#### Browser support

There's always a con. Always.

We have opted to no longer actively support any version of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browsers. While 8fold does not wish to add to the commentary already available, we believe it's important to note that [Microsoft stopped supported Internet Explorer](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/windows/end-of-ie-support) January 12th, 2016. 

We don't wish to play favorites when it comes to alternatives; therefore, won't list any here. However, there are plenty to choose from and regardless of your operating system you should be able to find at least one alternative; further, that alternative will most likely be able to run any 8fold website or web-based application &mdash; it may not be the experience we designed, but it will work.

With that said, we actively test and support browsers with a usage rating greater than 1.5 percent according to [Can I Use...](https://caniuse.com/usage-table) aggregated data on browser usage. While Microsoft's latest browser, Edge, does not meet this criteria, it is still in our active considerations as it is the only supported browser from an international provider and comes bundled with the Windows operating system.
+software|
++|

## Intellectual Property &<br> Content Policy

You own your content; therefore, are responsible for it.

8fold believes creative work has value and you, the creator, have the right to pursue that value. 8fold, as a legal entity, not a sentient being, does _not_ create anything. Therefore, 8fold is not the publisher or other of any works posted by its registered users. 8fold Practitioners do not screen works before they are posted and there is no approval process. Note: A screening and approval process may be applied to Practitioners posting in the name of 8fold or its divisions.

See [8fold Culture: Practices](/operations/culture#practices).

When posting to 8fold Link or similar services, you are claiming that you either:

1. are the copyright holder for such material,
2. have permission from the copyright holder to post the material, or
3. the material is free of limited copyright (public domain).

|+ ### DMCA
As 8fold operates in the United States and is governed by those laws, it is our policy to respond to notices of copyright infringement in a manner compliant with the [.DMCA](Digital Millennium Copyright Act) and other applicable laws.

#### Serving notice

There are three ways by which to notify 8fold of a claim of infringement: 8fold Link, online form, email, and by mail.

On each piece of posted content to 8fold Link, 8fold provides a link to start the DMCA claim process.

You may [contact 8fold](https://8fold.link/ef/contact) and select DMCA as the topic.

Send an email [legal@8fold.link](mailto:legal@8fold.link).

Or, a physical notice to:

8fold DMCA Claim<br>
300 Montvue Rd.<br>
Knoxville, TN 37919-5546
+dmca|

## Fold Policy

The [8fold Fold System](/operations/fold-system) is used within 8fold to facilitate trade, incentive, profit redistribution, and other similar administrative functions.

Folds cannot be redeemed for, traded in for, nor converted to cash or cash equivalents. Any member, or group of members, discovered doing so will be subject to removal from 8fold and disqualified from future membership. 8fold cannot be held liable for members attempting to trade Folds for cash or cash equivalents.

So long as your total Fold count stays above the minimum threshold for profit redistribution and your account remains open, you will receive the profit redistribution you qualify for.

## Profit Redistribution Policy

## Changes to these policies and handbook

8fold periodically updates these policies to ensure legal and internal compliance. 

8fold attempts to notify Registered Users of substantive changes before they take effect. Substantive changes are considered those that could negatively impact or negate previous policy and include, but are not limited to, changing the location of a previously published page, changing legal jurisdictions and considerations, and the merger or sale of 8fold itself. Non-substantive changes include, but are not limited to, correcting typos, rearranging information on a page, and rephrasing that seeks to clarify but not alter intent.

Note: If you would like to receive notifications of all future changes, see a complete archive of the 8fold Handbook, or discuss proposed changes, please watch the [8fold Handbook content repository](https://github.com/8fold/content-8fold.handbook) on GitHub. (Receiving notification or providing commentary requires GitHub account).